---
aliases:
  - Horizon God
---
## <span style="color:rgb(68, 122, 203)">Erwnvyn: The Horizon God</span>

 ><span style="color:rgb(125, 125, 125)">*The Horizon God, who keeps the [[The Lovers|Sun and Moon]] separated and chasing each other across the sky, and prevents them from dominating the lives of mortals.*</span>
 
 - <span style="color:rgb(186, 74, 120)">*A very small number of scholars and [[Cleric|clerics]] are aware of the existence of a third [[Deities|deity]]: The Horizon god, Erwnvyn.*</span> He was created in the moment when [[Solanah]] and [[Akareth]]’s first thinking creation realized its own autonomy, and the desire for true free will manifested Erwnvyn into being. The Horizon God represents the unyielding desire of living beings for freedom—freedom from control, from fate, and from the very deities that shape existence. <span style="color:rgb(193, 145, 56)">Erwnvyn occupies a restless position as the Horizon, preventing the Sun and Moon from being together, keeping them chasing each other across the sky.</span> Erwnvyn is an entity of paradox and suffering, as his very existence is a contradiction. <span style="color:rgb(193, 145, 56)">He is the protector of freedom, yet the very essence of his being requires him to restrict the freedom of the Lovers in order to maintain the balance between the material world and the mental world, which keeps Erwnvyn in constant pain and misery.</span>
    - <span style="color:rgb(79, 151, 125)">During a solar eclipse, Erwnvyn can finally rest, freeing him of his pain if but for a brief moment.</span> As he relaxes his power and averts his eyes so the Lovers can have privacy, <span style="color:rgb(79, 151, 125)">shimmering lights appear in the sky</span> <span style="color:rgb(125, 125, 125)">(think Aurora Borealis but more colorful and rainbow)</span>, a manifestation of Lovers’ true power reaching the mortal planes. Solanah and Akareth ignore the pleas and affairs of mortals every moment of the few hours they are in contact—they have better things to do. <span style="color:rgb(125, 125, 125)">(Clerics still have power because divine magic comes from their spiritual connection to the deities, however, divine intervention doesn’t work.)</span> With all of this going on, certain types of rituals are all the more powerful.
    - <span style="color:rgb(79, 151, 125)">Meteors streaking across the sky are said to be a result of Erwnvyn’s pain</span>, his tears from the pain of the underlying collective consciousness and the pain of keeping two lovers apart. When a meteorite hits the ground, a small group of scholars know that that it’s Erwnvyn’s tear, and that it thus has special power and properties. Different cultures have other explanations, because most don’t know of Erwnvyn’s existence.
    - Erwnvyn’s power is solely rested in maintaining the day/night cycle and the boundary of the horizon. <span style="color:rgb(125, 125, 125)">(As such, no power can be gained by worshipping him.)</span> But technically, it’s not entirely constrained to that—<span style="color:rgb(186, 74, 120)">he can interfere in circumstances where doing so would cause him no existential pain.</span>
        - For example, when a group of promising revolutionaries whose goals align with the Sun and Moon ends up in prison, Erwnvyn could interfere, very very subtly. Maybe keys will just slightly unnaturally drop off a guard’s keychain into a cell. The horizon is covered with fog they can see through the tiny window in their cell, but the revolutionaries swear they could see a faint silhouette in the fog of a man so big his head curves with the sky. When they blink, the silhouette is gone.
        - Erwnvyn often also allows intervention from [[Solanah]] as [[Faeaniya]] to help couples have biological children when it would have otherwise been impossible.